We just saw all of our tests get executed whenever we create this new request.
Now, I want to try to add in an additional commit to this request.
And in this additional commit, we're going to make a breaking change to one of our tests.
Again, this is just so you can see what would happen if we make a change that's going to break our
test and that would be assigned to us, that we should probably fix up our code before we merge it into
the master branch.
The back inside my editor.
I'm going to find the roots directory inside the alt service.
I'll find a test folder inside there.
I'll open up the current user test file.
And I'm going to make a change to this test to forcibly break it.
In particular, I'll change the expectation right here from 200 to 400.
That should definitely cause my test suite to fail.
So I'm going to save that.
And we're going to imagine that maybe along with this failing test, we also wrote out some other code
inside of our project that we would want to eventually deploy.
So we would want to go again.
Go through this kind of process right here.
We're going to commit our changes to that same branch.
Well, then push that up to GitHub.
Now, because we have already created a request for this branch, we do not have to create a pull request
a second time instead because we are making these changes to the same branch.
They will be added in as additional changes to the request we had just created.
I will go back over to my terminal.
I'll do a get status.
Yep.
There's the test change I just made.
They'll add it, admit it, and I'll call this.
How about last minute change?
And I'll push it up to the same branch, the dev branch.
They'll do a get push origin dev.
All right.
Once we push that, we should be able to go back over to GitHub and take a look at that request.
So there's the last minute change.
And after a moment or two, I should see this little box down here update and say that it's running
an additional set of tests.
The tests that are now being executed include that latest change.
And so we should have a test inside there that is going to fail.
I can once again click on details and take a look at the running tests so I can expand that little bullet
point right here.
If it'll let me know, it's not going to let me.
Well, there we go.
Okay.
So we're installing dependencies once again, we're going to run the tests.
In this case, they should fail horribly.
So I'm just going to let it do its thing for a moment here.
It looks like the tests we just started up, there's are a couple of passes and eventually we get that
failure because our test failed.
Now this overall little workflow right here should have failed as well.
So if I now go back over to my conversation tab.
I'll be told that some of our checks are in this case.
All of our checks have failed.
And so we can't technically merge our code into master, but GitHub is going to strongly discourage
you to do so.
It's going to say, Hey, look, you are trying to run some tests here.
It is clear that there is something wrong inside of your code base right now, and it's kind of encouraging
us to fix up our code base before we merge these changes into master.
I bet you guess how we do that.
We just go into our code base, make the fixes, make sure a test pass locally, and then eventually
commit those changes and push them back up to the same PR.
So we're going to do that right now.
We're going to essentially undo the change we just made.
Back over inside my editor, I'll find that current user test file and I'll change that response right
there.
Back over to 200.
Once I've got that updated, I'm then going to run my tests locally just to make sure that that actually
fixed it up because this is what you really would do in the real world.
They'll change into off and then do an NPM run test pull in CI.
I'm running the CI script because I really just want to run the test one time and immediately exit as
opposed to start at my test and then kind of watch your mode.
It looks like everything is now passing.
Now we can commit that change and push it back up to GitHub once again.
So I'll add that change.
I'll give a message of something like fixed test.
We should probably provide a better description than that, but I'll leave that up to you.
And then I'll push that to Origin Dev.
Now, once again, after that change has been made, I should be able to flip back over.
We're going to either see another test run right here.
Yep.
Looks like there it starts.
And once again, we're going to have to wait for these tests to be completed.
So I bet you can guess what's going to happen now.
Those tests are going to run in about 30 seconds or so.
We're going to see a little green checkmark that says, hey, everything looks good.
You can merge these changes into the master branch.
All right.
So that is pretty much it.
That is kind of step number one in this entire workflow.
Again, it's going to go something like this diagram right here.
Remember, this diagram is really all about the first time that you create a particular branch or really
a particular pull request.
After you create that pull request, you do not have to create the pull request.
Again, you can continue.
Making changes on the same branch, pushing them up to GitHub.
Every time you push those changes to that same branch, the tests are going to rerun and update the
pull request.
It's only when you merge that request or otherwise close it that you're going to have to create a pull
request again at some point in the future.
All right.
So at this point, we have successfully shown that we can run tests around our suite whenever we push
up code and we can get some output from those tests visible on our request itself.
Now we're going to expand the GitHub action we put together.
We're going to make sure that we run tests from all of our different services, not just the service.
So quick pause right here and we're going to expand that little script in just a moment.